# Job Cost

#Prerequisites
Following utilities should be installed to run this application
1.)MongoDB
2.)Node.js V6.0+
3.)Npm (no need of separate installatin as it comes with node) 


A job cost estimator using:

- Node.js platform
- Express web framework
- EJS templating engine
- MVC design pattern
- Mongoose mongodb object modeling for node.js
- Lodash for JavaScript object iteration and manipulation 
- jQuery library for DOM manipulation
- BootStrap framework for responsive clients



# Template

Application based on the Hackathon-Starter project

- https://github.com/sahat/hackathon-starter

# Modular design 

The applications helps our client create cost estimates for:

- Roofing jobs
- Flooring jobs
- Waterproofing jobs

Each type of estimate shares common features

- Based on area (sqft)
- Includes material costs
- Includes mileage
- Includes labor
- Includes miscellaneous costs

# Collaborative effort

The application will be collaboratively built by 
Spring 2017 web app software engineers 
at Northwest Missouri State University.

Section 02 will build jc2
Section 04 will build jc4

We are building on work produced by the Fall 2016 Web Apps developers.

Please see the About / Teams pages for more information about how to contact us. 

# Process

This application will be started in A04, extended in A05, and completed in A06.

# Initialize (do these just once when setting up the project)

Clone a copy of your section repository to your c:\44563 folder.

Open a command window in this project folder (e.g. C:\44563\jc2).

Install nodemon globally to enable live updates.

```
> npm install -g nodemon
```

Install Typescript globally to enable TypeScript language features.

```
> npm install -g typescript
```

Install Yarn globally to enable Yarn package manager.

```
> npm install -g yarn
```

# Install dependencies as needed before starting the app

Run npm install to install all the dependencies in the package.json file 
once before you begin and as new dependencies are added.

```
> npm install
```

OR run faster, safer yarn (same as npm install) / yarn upgrade to update all dependencies and the autogenerated yarn.lock file.

```
> yarn 
> yarn upgrade
```

# Start up Mongodb

Run mongod to start MongoDB.  (Hit CTRL-C to stop.)

```
> mongod 
```

# Run the app

Run nodemon app to start the server.  (Hit CTRL-C to stop.)

```
> nodemon app.js
```

Point your browser to `http://localhost:8082` (for Sec 02)
Point your browser to `http://localhost:8084` (for Sec 04)

# Building and editing the code

Install Visual Studio Code.

Right-click on your project folder and select "Open with Code".

To type commands from within VS Code, from the VS Code menu, select View / Integrated Terminal.

- Install Extension: tslint
- Under VS Code menu "File" option, check "Autosave"

# For questions contact

Dr. Denise Case, Instructor (dcase@nwmissouri.edu)
Sec 02 Rathnakar Ettidi, course assistant
Sec 04 Vamsi Ravva, course assistant



